Gulab Jamun is a milk based very likeable dessert in India.There is a folklore that it was first prepared in medieval India by Shah Jahan’s royal chef who took inspiration from Persian/Turkish traditions. I have been cooking this delicious sweet for my friends and family since I have started enjoying cooking meals at age of 15.Although most of the time, I have been using readymade milk based solid to make Gulab Jamuns, however there are many variations in making Gulab Jamun based on ingredients you can choose as follows:
•	Gulab Jamun using readymade solid base
•	Gulab Jamun using Milk Powder
•	Gulab Jamun Using Khoya
•	Gulab Jamun using condensed milk and paneer
•	Gulab Jamun using Khoya and Paneer
•	Gulab Jamun using Bread
Then there are different shapes of Gulab Jamun and sometimes Gulab jamun is called as Kala Jamun based on its texture and color. If texture is solid and color is black, then it’s called as Kala Jamun while Gulab Jamun’s texture is Soft and color is brown. In this recipe I will show you, how can we make Gulab Jamun using milk powder which I would suppose available everywhere 😊

Ingredients:
1.	Milk Powder – 135 gms
2.	Full cream Milk – ½ cup
3.	Unsalted Butter – 55 gms
4.	Cardamom – 7/8 pcs
5.	White flour – ½ cup
6.	Ghee – To fry Gulab Jamun
7.	Sugar – 400 gms (2 cup)
8.	Pistachios – for garnishing
9.	Cashews – for garnishing

Method:
Step 1: Make Khoya
1.	Heat unsalted butter in a pan and melt it. 
2.	Add milk and mix well and let the gas remain on slow flame. 
3.	Add Milk powder and stir constantly to mix well.
4.	Cook until it gets smooth and thick in texture on low flame to make Khoya. 
5.	After the Khoya is ready, turn off the gas and take it out in a separate plate/bowl.
Step 2: Make Sugar Syrup
1.	Put sugar (2 cup) and water (1 cup) in a vessel. 
2.	Let the sugar syrup cook till the sugar dissolves. 
3.	Meanwhile make fine and thin slices of pistachios and cashew using knife and keep it aside. Also, make powder of cardamoms by crushing them and keep it aside.
4.	Now check the syrup - drip 1-2 drops from the syrup solution into the plate. Try sticking it between the thumb and finger, the syrup should stick between the finger and the thumb, it is not necessary to see the wire in the syrup, just the sugar syrup should be sticky.
5.	Sugar syrup is ready, turn off the gas. 
6.	Add cardamom powder to the syrup and mix. 
7.	Keep sugar syrup aside.
Step 3: Make Gulab Jamuns Dough
1.	Place the khoya in a plate and add white four teaspoons of flour. 
2.	Mash the mixture until it becomes smooth.
3.	If the khoya looks too dry then you can add a little milk to it, add a little milk with a spoon and prepare the khoya by kneading it like a smooth dough. 
4.	Gulab Jamuns Dough is soft and ready in 6-7 minutes. 
Step 4: Make Gulab Jamuns
1.	Separate out a little mixture from the dough in even portions. 
2.	Apply few drops of ghee on your palm. Take a one piece from the plat and round it with the help of hands to make Gulab jamun ball.
3.	Likewise prepare all the Gulab Jamun balls this way, you can make different shapes if you like 😊 
4.	Now, put ghee in the pan and heat it. 
5.	Put few balls in the pan and deep fry. 
6.	Keep frying till it turns golden brown.
7.	Take out the Gulab jamun from the pan and place it in a bowl or on a paper covered napkin. Likewise fry all the Gulab jamuns.
8.	When all Gulab Jamun balls slightly cooled, put them in sugar syrup. 
9.	Let the Gulab jamuns be immersed in the syrup for 5-6 hours/overnight so that the Gulab jamuns soak up the sugar syrup and become sweet and delicious.
10.	And Gulab Jamuns are ready to serve by garnishing with dry fruits over it. (In my case here, Gulab jamun texture was little thick and I made it bit darker – I can call it Kala Jamun too😉 )
11. Having Hot Gulab Jamun with Vanila ice-cream is just an awesome way of indulging with sweetness you would cherish for long 😊
 

Suggestions:
•	If Gulab Jamun gets splashed in ghee, add little Maida to the dough and mash it in the same way and smooth the mixture by mixing it again with little milk and now again make a Gulab Jamun and Check whether Gulab Jamun is well fried and ready.
•	You can also add little crushed dry fruits stuffing while making Gulab jamun from the dough to give it a different variety
•	If Gulab jamuns kept in refrigerator, they long last for 4-5 days.
•	You can user coconut powder for garnishing as well.
•	If you do not want to make dough mixture, you can purchase readymade Gulab jamun mix here and make great Gulab jamuns 😊
